JUDY WOODRUFF: As part
of the G20 summit this
weekend, President
Trump will meet with the
United Kingdom's prime
minister, Theresa May.
They will have much to discuss,
from the fight against ISIS,
to the role of NATO, and how
their broader agendas differ
from those of European allies.
A short time ago, I spoke
with the U.K.'s defense
secretary, Sir Michael Fallon.
I began by asking him about
the differing accounts of what
Mr. Trump said to President
Putin about Russian meddling
in last year's U.S. election.
MICHAEL FALLON, U.K.
Defense Secretary: It
was an important meeting.
It was right that they should
meet reasonably early on.
It's right that they should get
along, because there's quite a
bit to talk to Russia about.
JUDY WOODRUFF: You had said
earlier that the U.S. should
go into that meeting warily.
Does it sound to you as
if that's what happened?
MICHAEL FALLON: Well, we
have to engage with Russia.
That can't be business as usual
with Russia while the Crimea
remains annexed, while Ukraine
is being interfered with.
It can't be business as usual.
But we think it important to
have a dialogue with Russia to
try and de-escalate any tensions
that there are and to
ensure that where Russia
does have influence in
the world -- and Syria
is one example -- that
we can bring Russia's
influence to bear.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, you work
very closely obviously with
the intelligence community.
We know that President
Trump has challenged the
intelligence community
-- the U.S. intelligence
community's reporting on Russian
interference in the election.
What effect might that have
on Russia and its continuing
efforts to interfere here in
the U.S. and in Europe?
MICHAEL FALLON: Well, we
know Russia intervened in
some elections in Europe.
That, we do know, in
the Dutch referendum,
in the French elections.
There's been an attempted coup
in Montenegro that Russia was
suspected of being involved
in.
So, we know there's been
this pattern of behavior
by Russia in recent years.
But I'm not able to
comment on what happened
here in your election.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But to the
extent President Trump is
challenging the work of the U.S.
community, does that
have an effect on
intelligence work abroad,
internationally, cooperation
between the U.S. and
allies like the U.K.?
MICHAEL FALLON: Well,
there's no closer cooperation
on intelligence than
between us and the United
States.
Our services work extremely
closely together, both
in monitoring what
Russia is doing, but
also against terrorism.
So it's a very close
relationship to us.
It's very important to us.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Let
me turn to Syria.
We're told the two
presidents did discuss Syria.
And, in fact, after their
meeting, it was reported that
they have agreed on a cease-fire
for a section of
southwestern Syria.
What do you know about that?
MICHAEL FALLON: Well
any cease-fire has got
to be good news in the
civil war that's gone
on are for so long now.
But there's been many
cease-fires before that
have turned out not to
be cease-fires at all.
And we have seen up in Aleppo
in the north of Syria, we have
seen Russia allowing Syria
to go on bombing its
own civilians, bombing
hospitals after a cease-fire
has been declared.
Now, this one is welcome, but
it has got to be enforced, it's
got to be an actual cease-fire.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And
what do you look for?
What's the evidence of that?
You want to see when it
takes effect and what
the ground rules are?
MICHAEL FALLON: Yes.
We want to see it applied to
those on the ground, so that
we can get humanitarian aid
into those towns and
villages that have been
cut off in the fighting.
We can get aid through.
And we need to be
absolutely sure that it
really is a cease-fire.
But let's hope this one sticks
and brings some peace to that
part of Syria down in the
southwestern corner.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Can a cease-fire
make a difference, though, when
the two sides disagree about
whether President Assad
should stay in power?
The U.S. has said that
it wants him removed.
The Russians are still
saying they want him to stay.
MICHAEL FALLON: Well, we
don't see any long-term
future for Assad in Syria.
This is a man who has attacked
his own people, who has
barrel-bombed his own people.
He's used chemical weapons
against his own people.
We don't think he can be part of
the long-term future of Syria.
But what we do want to see
happening is the - - is all
those parties that are prepared
to work to a more democratic
Syria working together now to
bring about a new settlement.
And we're encouraging
the Russia-sponsored
process in Astana and
the other negotiations
that are going in Geneva
to bring those together
and see if everybody
can get around the table
now and plot a different
future for Syria.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But can there be
progress of any kind, whether
it's a cease-fire or some
other sort of step forward
together, when the two sides
still disagree over Mr. Assad
and his future?
MICHAEL FALLON: Well,
there is disagreement, yes.
We don't think he can be part of
the long-term future of Syria.
But we do want to see the
political process get under way
that will lead Syria to a more
plural kind of government that
is genuinely representative
of all the different groupings
in Syria.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Let me ask you
about another troubled part of
the world, and that is North
Korea.
We know that you and U.S.
Defense Secretary James
Mattis discussed that.
What can you tell us?
MICHAEL FALLON: Well,
it's a problem not just
for the United States.
Obviously, the United
States is coming within
range of these missiles.
But what the North Koreans
have done is something illegal.
It's something provocative.
And it's unacceptable.
And we have now got to respond
as an international community,
not just the United States.
It's not right the United
States has to bear this
problem on its own.
We have got to work much harder
now through the United Nations
to see whether the sanctions
that have already been applied
are working properly, to
consider additional sanctions,
and, thirdly, to bring more
pressure to bear on China to
get the kind of changes that we
need in that regime.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, as you
know, President Trump has been
tweeting a lot about this.
He said the other day words to
the effect it looks like that
what the Chinese did hasn't
had any effect, they're still
trading with North Korea.
Are these kinds of
comments helpful?
MICHAEL FALLON: Well, we all
have to, I think, step back now
and see and look very carefully
at what has worked and
what has not worked.
We have had seven United
Nations resolution.
Clearly, a nuclear program of
this kind can't have been put
together without access to the
raw materials, the
components involved, and
indeed to the finance
that you need to construct
them, to put it all together.
So, clearly, the sanctions may
have been breached, and we need
to look at them, see where those
gaps are in the sanctions,
and whether a new resolution
can impose a tougher regime on
North Korea or indeed on any
other companies and individuals,
Chinese or otherwise, who
may have been helping them.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Is there
agreement between the U.S.,
U.K. and other nations with the
same interests on what
should come next with
regard to North Korea?
MICHAEL FALLON: Well, there is
agreement that, first of all, we
have to work this diplomatically
and economically through
sanctions, that we have to raise
the price of what the North
Koreans are doing to deter
them from carrying out
further tests in future.
There's agreement
amongst us on that.
And we're all working hard on
that at the United Nations in
New York to move that agreement
forward.
JUDY WOODRUFF: With all due
respect, though, there have
been sanctions in place.
MICHAEL FALLON: There has been
sanctions, and some clearly
have not been enforced.
And we need to look at that.
And then we need to look and
see whether a new, tougher
resolution is required.
And we will be looking at that
in the European Union framework
as well over in Europe to
see who may have been trading
with North Korea and so on.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The Russians
and the Chinese have proposed
that the North Koreans freeze
their missile program, their
nuclear program, in exchange
for which the South Koreans and
the United States would stop
or pull back on these joint
military exercises and remove
the THAAD missile
defense system.
Is that any sort of
a realistic proposal?
MICHAEL FALLON: No, because
it's a false comparison.
Military exercises or missile
defense, these are legitimate
things for nations to have
and to do.
What North Korea is
doing is illegal.
It's completely illegal
under the treaties,
under international law.
It's a breach of United
Nations resolutions.
And you can't compare it with
military exercises in the South.
JUDY WOODRUFF: One other thing
I do want to ask you about,
that is, President Trump's
theme yesterday.
He spoke to the Polish
people in Warsaw.
And he spoke about the threat
to Western civilization.
He talked about it being
at a risk of decline.
And he asked if the West
has the will to survive.
Is this the sort of language
that you think is going to bring
the Western allies together
in their fight
against extremism?
MICHAEL FALLON: We do have
values in common in the West.
And we do need to speak
up for those values
and to remember them.
We're being attacked in the
West, not because those values
have failed, but because we have
been successful and we
have spread some of those
values around the world.
So, that was an important
message yesterday.
And it was coupled, of course,
with a reminder that the United
States stands behind Article
5 of the NATO treaty
that believes in the
collective defense of NATO.
If one of us is attacked,
then the others must
come to its help.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Sir Michael
Fallon, Britain's defense
secretary, thank you very much.
MICHAEL FALLON: Thank you.